# AIP-001 "DRAIN"
#### Authored By: Jared Rice Sr.
#### Authored On: 01-08-2020
#### Last Updated On: 01-08-2020

## Background
Blockchain software has historically been ran on servers and personal computers since its inception, where one computer running the software is able to sync data between other computers running the same software. Blockchain software typically runs via a terminal daemon, where users local to the installation are able to pass requests to the blockchain via a command-line interface (CLI) or publicly via a JSON-RPC-based API over the HTTP protocol. In short, these are known as "blockchain clients" which implement a particular blockchain's specification and communicate over a peer-to-peer network with other clients that follow the same exact specification.

The most important thing to understand when it comes to blockchain clients, is that different clients can interoperate with each other, as long as they follow the reference specification and the standardized communication protocols of a specific blockchain. Currently Arisen runs on a C++-based client, but in all technicality, one could develop a browser-based client in JavaScript that "speaks" the same protocol, follows the same policies and could be used to interact with the same Arisen network that the C++-based client currently interacts with.

As a community, our goal should be to not only have a very diverse set of Arisen clients running on the network, we need to develop a "server-less" client that runs on a p2p-basis over the [dWeb protocol](https://github.com/distributedweb/whitepaper), instead of putting all of our eggs into the basket of the HTTP protocol. Because of Arisen's history of being seized by government agencies and its mission to compete with powerful centralized companies, it's important that Arisen eliminates ***any possible*** central points of failure within its systems. It is my belief that all blockchains that operate over the HTTP protocol and centralized public networking addressing have an key central point of failure, that would allow rogue companies and governments to eliminate blockchains in specific jurisdictions, thereby dealing a blow to growing blockchain networks like Arisen. Recognizing this issue at Peeps, we have started the development of ```DRAIN``` **(Delivering Requests Across Interoperable Nodes)** as a new Arisen client that should remove the need for running Arisen out of centralized data centers and therefore over centralized networking addressing. DRAIN will be a Go-based implementation of the Arisen protocol that will still feature the same Arisen utilities such as ```aos```, ```arisecli``` and ```awallet``` but will also allow nodes to communicate over the dWeb protocol and dWeb-based addresses, rather than just the HTTP protocol and centralized IP addresses. DRAIN's goal is to drain the last of Arisen's points of failure and allow for Arisen to be the first completely decentralized blockchain network ever distributed across the globe.
